# Grading for Equity
* Listen to the following podcast on grading (35 minutes): https://sites.duke.edu/csedpodcast/2021/02/15/season-2-episode-4-grading-for-equity/
* In a markdown document, provide your reaction to the suggestions made in the episode.
  - Do you agree with the general sentiment or not?
  - Do yo have specific points of agreement/disagreement?
* For those of you currently teaching: Do you think that you would be able to implement some of these ideas in your class? If not, what would keep you from doing so?

## Reflection
I don't entirely disagree with Joe's points, but like Kristin I am skeptical. A big part of it is because I don't know how else to grade. I've grown up in this points system and was taught to use this system so it makes sense to me. The old saying goes 'teachers teach the way we were taught.' I agree that this is not the most equitable way to grade. Not all students have the privilege of high-speed Internet, a personal device, and a quiet place to focus on homework.

I wonder if we were to move away from the points system for a final cumulative grade and just considered a pass/fail option for computer science - something like if you can write a program that handles input/output and uses a list and an abstraction to manage complexity, you'll pass. There is no way to differentiate between more sophisticated programs and the simpler ones under this pass/fail schema, so here is where a tiered approach may be helpful. For example, if it's mind-blowing how much you developed for your program, then you get an A and if you meet the basic requirements, it's a B. And here, I fall into the traditional points system again. I don't envision the points system going away any time soon but I am not opposed to rethinking how we should grade in education.

One note that struck a chord with me was the discussion of deadlines and what the purpose of them were. If a student has a job after school and also has sibling-care responsibilities, they are definitely entitled to more time to work on specific assignments. However, at what point is working on the assignment too late? I view deadlines as a way to keep students accountable for their learning. It lets them know when they should be able to meet certain learning objectives before moving onto higher-level content. If a student turns in an assignment a couple days late, it's fine. However, what if they don't make up the assignment until a month later? Then the class content we've gone over and discussions we've had in class for that month will be moot, as completing the assignment was evidence that you have the pre-requisite knowledge to build off of to properly obtain new skills. I agree that not all assignments need to be graded for students to take them seriously but I think, at some point, there is a "too late" for making assignments up.

## Grading In My Practice
Again, while I'm not directly opposed to this new philosophy and structure of grading, I do have some hesitations about differentiating between students who have achieved mastery in the subject and those who have just met the basic requirements. Currently in my class, projects and tests are worth 60% and other minor assessments like class labs and multiple-choice checkpoints are worth the remaining 40%. If student miss some assignments or do poorly on a test, it would reflect in their grade. Generally, their class grade is robust and has so many data points that failing one or two assignments would not be that detrimental. If I were to eliminate this points-based system, I wonder how I can design a good summative assessment that truly assesses what students have learned. For interim grades to not be necessary, students must be motivated by the fact that every assignment ties into their capstone summative assessment. If we are moving forward with the one project that has input/output, a list, and an abstraction, what are sample responses that are good enough or not good enough to pass? It's hard to think so abstractly about it. If there were an established curriculum that I could review that employs Joe's standards for equity-based grading, I think I'll have a better idea of whether or not it can work in my classroom. For now, I am re-evaluating how equitable my assignments are at the back of my mind.
